Hello and welcome back to the course on
Tableau and today's tutorial marks the
completion of the section on joining and
blending data. It was quite a tough
section and we definitely learned a lot
and that's why I feel that it's
important for us to have this recap
tutorial where we can just revise
quickly what we learned and make sure
that we've got everything covered.
But before we do revise I wanted to ask you
for a quick favor, could you please leave
a review for this course and the reason
why I'm asking you now is that even
though that you haven't completed the
course yet a lot of students for some
reason don't get to the very end of the
course and therefore forget to leave a
review. So i would really appreciate if
you could click this button at the top
of the course and just the leave a rating,
all you have to do is to select the
number of stars you think this course
deserves and if you want to you can
enter a short message if you don't,
just select the number of stars and
click add review. It would really help me
out because it would help me understand
how the course is going and how well
I've done in this course and also you
would assist other students who are you
haven't taken this course yet and are
making the decision whether this course
is worth their while or not, thanks a lot! I
would really appreciate if you could do
that and let's get back to the show. So
joining data, what did we learn in this
part of this section?  First, of all we
learned about the different types of
joins, the inner join, the left join,
there's also the right join and the
full outer join and this knowledge will
not only help you in Tableau but in
other software like SQL, mysql, postgresql,
basically any relation a relational
database or database with structure data.
They all use joins and you will
definitely benefit from this knowledge
going forward.
Next we found out how joins with
duplicate values work and by that we
mean when the column that were are joining on has
duplicate values in one of the tables
and we found out what exactly happens
there and how to be prepared for those
things.
Also we learned how to join multiple
fields and we saw that when we do need
to join multiple fields and we forget to
do that, they can be very bad
consequences for instance we can all
over inflate certain metrics or of sales
figures and so on. So it's very important
to understand
exactly what feels you are joining
on and then execute the join
accordingly. So that was joining data.
Then we talked about blending data, so
blending data is like joining but a bit
different, blend is like a smart join on
the fly. So you don't have to do the
blend before you do all your analysis in Tableau.
Tableau can help you do this
blend inside the dashboard or
worksheet while you're creating your
visualization, a blend is always a left
join so there's always a primary data
source which is marked in blue and there's
secondary data sources which are marked
in orange, so the datasource in blue is
your primary data source and the blend
will be executed as if it were a left
join. Next the common fields with the
same name are picked up automatically as
the blend clause, so if you are two
datasets that you're blending have a
same field for instance category or date
and it's called exactly the same then
Tableau will automatically pick up that
date as the field that you want to blend
on. So, that's great if your fields
of the sa.. if you field's name are the same
if they're not, you can always control
this via the data menu so up at the top
on Tableau, you can go to data and then
edit relationships between the
data sources and you can add your own
clauses there and once again that is
important because as we recall joining
on multiple fields sometimes is
necessary. So you have to make that
assessment yourself in advance. Next, we
also learned that blending occurs at the
granularity of your view and that is important
because it is different to joining. When
you join in Tableau, it happens at the
row level but when you blend it actually
happens at a radio granular level which
brings us to the next point that
aggregation in a blend happens before
the blend. So Tableau sends separate
queries to the two data sources, it asks
them to aggregate their data to the
granularity of your view to the required
granularity. Then that aggregated data
comes back and then it is only joined or
it is only blended at that stage and
finally blends are unique to each
worksheet. So you can have one type of
blend on one worksheet another type of
blend on your other
worksheet and so on. Also, let's have a
look or we discussed at discuss the
difference between joining and blending,
and when you should use either. So you
should use joins when you're combining
data at a row level and that's exactly
what you're after and you should use
blends when the data sources have
different levels of granularity and
therefore if you do if you were to use
the join, you would lose some
information from your data and
that's not what you want and also you
should use a when your data
sources come from different systems for
instance if one is excel and  the other one is SQL,
you won't be able to perform a join
you will have to use a data blend, and
finally some other topics that we covered
off, also very important topics. First
one was dual-axis charts, we learned how
to create a dual-axis chart and they're
very very handy in Tableau because they
save space and they make your visuals
real look really appealing and you have
to remember at least the most important
things you have to remember to access
chart is that remember to sign
synchronize the axes. A lot of people
forget that and if you forget to
synchronize your axis then basically
the visual comparison of the two charts
that are one behind the other can lead
to wrong results and wrong conclusions wrong
business decisions and can be a very
very bad situation. So as we discussed in
the tutorial, as soon as you create a
dual-axis charts just right away
synchronized axis and then you can
decide if you want to unsynchronized
them or not. And the other point here was that
you can move charts around backwards and
forwards as required so one child will
always be behind the other one but
it's very easy to switch them around by
adjusting what is in your columns or
rows the order in which they come in
there. And the other topic that we
discussed is calculated fields in a
blend, it is a more advanced topic but at
the same time I felt that we should have,
we should talk about it because you will
be doing a lot of calculated fields
creating calculated fields or in your work
in Tableau and inevitably you will be
working with blends so when you put the
two together, you should you really
should know how to create calculated
fields in a blend it has its own
specifics
and I'm so speaking of which you should
just keep in mind that values are
aggregated. The values that you're
working with in your calculated field there
aggregated due to the nature of blends
and therefore you should as we discussed
in the tutorial make adjustments
accordingly. So that brings us to the end
of the section,
thank you very much for your attention.
Please rate this course before you move
on to the next section, I'd really
appreciate that and I look forward to
seeing you next time.
Until then, happy analyzing!